# DSL: AshUlid.Resource — ash_ulid v1.0.0

Project: ash_ulid v1.0.0

## Table of Contents

- [ __ View Source ](external_link) DSL: AshUlid.Resource
  - __ attributes.ulid_primary_key
    - __ Examples
    - __ Arguments
    - __ Options
    - __ Introspection

__

Search documentation of ash_ulid __ __

__ Settings

#  [ __ View Source ](external_link) DSL: AshUlid.Resource

Ash resource extension which adds `ulid_primary_key` to `attributes` section.

##  __ attributes.ulid_primary_key
    
    
    ulid_primary_key name

Declares a non writable, non-nil, primary key column of type ulid, which defaults to [`AshUlid.generate/0`](external_link).

Accepts all the same options as `[Ash.Resource.Dsl.attributes.attribute](dsl-ash-resource.html#attributes-attribute)`, except for `allow_nil?`, but it sets the following different defaults:
    
    
    writable? false
    public? true
    default &AshUlid.generate/0
    primary_key? true
    type AshUlid.Type

###  __ Examples
    
    
    ulid_primary_key :id

###  __ Arguments

Name| Type| Default| Docs  
---|---|---|---  
`name`| `atom`| | The name of the attribute.  
  
###  __ Options

Name| Type| Default| Docs  
---|---|---|---  
`type`| `module`| [`AshUlid.Type`](external_link)| The type of the attribute. See [`Ash.Type`](3.0.0/Ash.Type.html) for more.  
`constraints`| `keyword`| | Constraints to provide to the type when casting the value. For more, see [`Ash.Type`](3.0.0/Ash.Type.html).  
`description`| `String.t`| | An optional description for the attribute.  
`sensitive?`| `boolean`| `false`| Whether or not the attribute value contains sensitive information, like PII. See the [Sensitive Data guide](external_link) for more.  
`source`| `atom`| | If the field should be mapped to a different name in the data layer. Support varies by data layer.  
`always_select?`| `boolean`| `false`| Whether or not to ensure this attribute is always selected when reading from the database, regardless of applied select statements.  
`primary_key?`| `boolean`| `true`| Whether the attribute is the primary key. Composite primary key is also possible by using `primary_key? true` in more than one attribute. If primary_key? is true, allow_nil? must be false.  
`generated?`| `boolean`| `false`| Whether or not the value may be generated by the data layer.  
`writable?`| `boolean`| `false`| Whether or not the value can be written to. Non-writable attributes can still be written with [`Ash.Changeset.force_change_attribute/3`](3.0.0/Ash.Changeset.html#force_change_attribute/3).  
`public?`| `boolean`| `true`| Whether or not the attribute should be shown over public interfaces. See the [sensitive data guide](external_link) for more.  
`default`| `(-> any) | mfa | any`| `&AshUlid.generate/0`| A value to be set on all creates, unless a value is being provided already. Note: The default value is casted according to the type's Ash.Type._module, before it is saved. For`:string`, for example, if `constraints: [allow_empty?: _]` is false, the value `""` will be cast to `nil`. See the `:constraints` option, the `:allow_nil?` option, and the relevant `Ash.Type._` documentation.  
`update_default`| `(-> any) | mfa | any`| | A value to be set on all updates, unless a value is being provided already.  
`filterable?`| `boolean | :simple_equality`| `true`| Whether or not the attribute can be referenced in filters.  
`sortable?`| `boolean`| `true`| Whether or not the attribute can be referenced in sorts.  
`match_other_defaults?`| `boolean`| `false`| Ensures that other attributes that use the same "lazy" default (a function or an mfa), use the same default value. Has no effect unless `default` is a zero argument function.  
  
###  __ Introspection

Target: [`Ash.Resource.Attribute`](3.0.0/Ash.Resource.Attribute.html)

[ ← Previous Page  Guide  ](external_link)

[ Next Page →  License  ](external_link)
